Hey,
guys,
In this video,
we will start wiring up or registration form with our database objective off this video Is
that we when we submit our form the data that is displayed on the success that PHP page
will also get submitted so over,
attendee table in over days of this.
Now this process starts with modification off our course.
We go back to visual studio code on.
Then what we want to do is create a new file in our DB folder some winter creating you file
click on the DB folder,
create new fire on them.
Going to call this one carod dot PHP No crowd is an acronym for Create,
read,
update and delete.
On the purpose of this file is the store all of the function or functions are all of the
court associate ID with those operations.
This will also represents our first step into using an object oriented approach toe over
THB development.
So the first thing that we want to do as usual in any PHP file is create or PHP block on.
Then inside this block,
we're going to define a class on the class name.
I usually meet my class name reflective off the file names.
That way I know exactly what class is represented by a what file?
Someone to call this class fraud.
And if you're not very familiar with what I'm doing here with class and objects and so on,
it's fine.
You can just stick with me and I will explain it along the way.
But this is object oriented approach to programming.
No,
I'm going to define private attributes and I would supply this one db on.
Then I went to define a function.
But this is a special function that every class has our chan have,
and it's called a constructor.
Someone to read the word from John on.
We would have looked at how we defined functions before and impeach Be all have to see is
the word function on Give it that name.
So it's a form son,
and then this is how we define a constructor.
So it is two underscores and in the word construct,
So that's underscore Underscore con stroked on door construct.
Er is going to take a parameter on that.
Would you call this parameter con?
So essentially,
when you're initializing an object off a class,
you can actually upped to do it without any objects without any parameters Or if you
require a permit that this is where you would have defined that a parameter is required or
some value is required any time you're initializing an object off that class,
that so I'm going to take a parameter called upon on.
Then I'm with a sign water value came in to this con apartment off to or private variable
called DB.
So and then I want to say this,
which is a key word in most programming languages,
which just means in this class in this class file that I'm in.
So this is just a short way of saying I'm home.
All right,
so this gives me access to all the private and public attributes off this class file.
So in this case,
I want this db to get the value that con us.
All right.
So in other words,
wherever I'm going to use Devi throat discuss,
it should embody whatever value came in upon.
All right.
So I just went ahead and added some comments so that we have a bit more context as to what
is happening with each line off court.
Now the cool thing about the classes that you can put as many functions and variables are
inside of that class.
And wherever you need to reference it,
all you need is a instance off the class on you just make reference to the function that is
there.
So we are going to be using this class toe house all off the functions associated with
creating a record in Ardis Abi's retrieving airport for more data bees or beating a record
in our data Bees on did the meeting at report in our database.
So for this video,
we will focus on fleshing Oh,
it's the insert function.
So I'm going to say function.
But then I have to qualify this one as public.
So I did say Private here on die also have option off public.
So what this means is that if I declare an object off class crowd,
there is no way for me to interact off BB because devious,
private to the class.
So the only way I can interact with DB is from another function inside off the class.
However,
when I do see public,
then it allows me toe interact with it outside off this.
So I'm which is a public function on.
I want to simply call this insert,
and I just read that function body on,
then insert No.
Is supposed to get some parameters so that it knows what it should be inserting.
So I'm going to define parameters here inside this insert function that will be able to
accept all off the values that are being passed in the post action.
So let me,
let me say that the different way,
remember from or form?
We're collecting a bunch off,
Beat up one's name,
first name,
last name,
date of birth,
etcetera.
So all of these data points are going to get submitted.
When they get submitted,
they go into the success dot PHP page,
which is our action on.
We can access them all using the post variable.
What we can't do,
however,
is actually put them in the database,
at least not yet.
So I'm going to define a function inside of my crowd file that is going to be waiting and
willing to accept values that would be coming from the post function article starry.
So in other words,
I'm goingto create a perimeter.
Her data points Someone tohave 14 1st name and I'm going to kind of reacted shortened,
so they don't have toe necessarily reflect the exact name someone to shorten it.
But at least I'll know what f name means an L name on.
I'm just declaring some variables that will actually holds all off the values coming back
and specialty.
Okay,
So they so once again,
when I call this function to inserts,
the expectation is that I'm going to be passing a value per parameter aan den operation
that I carry out inside of the function will use those values to complete the insert.
No,
unto the fun part inside of my function,
I'm going to start off with a try and catch,
so I can actually just write the word try and impressed up twice.
And in visual studio just completes the entire try.
Catch for me.
Let me do that again at this.
Wrote the word try first top twice if it select.
If you have both speakers,
make sure the 2nd 1 is one that is in focus on breast up twice and then you will get your
track judge block automatically.
If that doesn't work for you to understand this.
Or try open brace close brace,
Catch open parentheses on open,
open and close braces.
No.
Once again,
the track catch block sees that I'm going to try and do something here.
But I'm watching to see if I get an error so that I can take a particular action with this
air and this logical exception handling.
So and I just added a community here.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go ahead and create a variable called SQL on this
variable is just going to play host to my SQL insert statements.
I'm going to give you guys a little trick.
If you're not so comfortable with SQL statements,
then you can actually go over to your database in PHP.
My admin Click on your table on then Goto sq Well on then click insert And it kind of gives
you a little template as to what an insert statement needs to look like.
So,
following this guy,
we know how we need to type out our statements.
On the whole,
we're going to put them into PHP.
But once again,
if it is that you want to develop your esque you'll and database development skills.
Then you need to check out my course,
which is my SQL database development.
Andi mastery.
So,
back in our cold,
where did you spend type so together?
Someone to say Insert into So those air SQL keywords on Ben.
I am going to specify the table name,
which in this case is a 10 B because I'm about to insert a report into the attendee table.
Andi,
I have to specify which columns now They're two schools of thought are two ways to do this
.
You can specify all the problems.
You don't necessarily have to,
because if you put the column values sorry,
if you put the values in the exact order that they would have appeared.
If you said value,
then you don't necessarily have to do this part of it.
Someone to skip that part of it.
And I'm just into right.
It's the more you know,
the Foster Lee.
So the first column would be first name,
last name,
date of birth,
email address plant that number on Dwell.
Remember,
we had specialty idea and not just a specialty,
so we'll get to that.
But that's the order you don't need to put in anything for attendee i d because it's an
auto incriminating primary key.
So after the would be list,
off columns comes the word values.
So we would have had attendee and then listing out all the columns and then we say values.
But since we're not listing the columns,
I just removed that.
So if you're listing the columns,
you have the parent disease.
If they're not,
they don't need them on,
Then we'll save values.
But here is the crazy part.
So with a regular sq,
a statement,
you would have stipulated of value that corresponds with each one of these.
So if I just feel this right now,
I would have put something like the static value.
Mary Andi Poppins,
etcetera,
Right?
I'm not going to fill out all of this,
but that's what I would have assumed in so everybody can see.
All right,
so that is what I would have been putting in if I was writing this statement manual.
And if you were using that my s killer in my school I date Ah,
ap I Then that's also whole.
You would ever over the dangers off doing directly like that in PHP it opens you up to
watch because SQL injections which are very,
very nasty kind of attack that you really don't want to entertain.
Okay,
So as as a guard against that PDO requires that were active particulate away on,
then it will execute it.
So the particulary way that we're going to write it will have us actually using like
placeholders.
So instead of seeing the value,
understand To put colon on a placeholder toe correspond with what should be there.
Alright,
someone to say colon f name fallen l name on.
I understand you reuse all of those variable names from the parameters So really and truly
,
once again,
these are place holders,
they don't have any values right now.
So at the end of this exercise,
you should have these please holders.
Once again I give them similar names to each variable that I know they will correspond with
You didn't have toe boat for consistency.
I I recommend that you do so we would have created some very,
very abstract form often sqs demons.
The next step is toe Prepare this SQL statement Someone to be clear on mother variable on.
I'm going to call this one s d MT that short for statements.
So that's just my naming convention on.
Then I'm going to see this.
And then this is so we actually access or private variable devious.
Remember that TV represents the PDO connection or the connection on we would have already
defined or connection from inside off con on this is our PDO objects,
which represents connecting to the database.
So here it within the class crowed This is an obstruction off this connection.
So PDO exists here.
But what we intend to do is pass it into the crowd class and it will get stored as DB.
So the only way to access DB is to see this.
So it's not the same this on then We use that operators.
So that's a dash and greeted aunts and our listeners.
And with a narrow on this arrow is basically hole We reference reference attributes or
properties or functions within from a class aren't are from an object.
So this represents the object off class screwed on.
Then we're accessing the property,
our attributes dd so we say db on then inside off db,
we have another function someone to use that arrow again on this function is called Prepare
on,
then prepare takes a parameter which would be the SQL statement.
So we could have just done this.
We would have said this R o D B r o prepare and then just write that skill statement inside
off the parentheses.
But I like segmenting its like this or that.
Eat step off the way it is clear what is happening.
So we gonna defined rs your statement first on.
Then we went ahead and prepared it for execution later.
The next step is to actually bind over placeholders to the actual values to remember that
these with the Poland's here inside off our SQL statement,
I really place all us what the rial values are expected to come in through these parameters
.
So we need to have a section where we see STM tea on an arrow on that we call a film song
called Bind Param.
And then this function takes two parameters in the experimental number one which is our
placeholder.
So F name is the first place holder on.
Then we have a comma on.
Then we see What do you want?
Oh,
buying this place holder to on essentially what this would do.
We see that within this statement that is being prepared,
I want that these placeholders gets replaced with these values Now it may seem tedious it
may seem Monday,
and especially if you're used to just writing SQL statement any insert into.
But once again,
this is an added level of protection against the SQL injection attack.
So you are going to do that for each placeholder and understand to duplicate these lines
and understand to change what I need to change parents,
they can to stop in peace than kind of expedite that process on.
Here's one of the advantages with using the placeholder,
making the peaceful that looked just that available name.
The changes can occur more quickly,
So I'm just going to go ahead and change those votes.
All right,
so I'm finished binding all off my placeholders and everything looks good to go on the
final thing to do or sorry,
I I made a mistake with my object name.
I had the cord written somewhere else and I copied in pieces,
so I've gotten that corrected.
All right,
so I know that we've boned all off the placeholders with our actual values.
The next thing that we want to do is actually execute.
So we cst empty Onda we on.
Then I use my arrow on.
I'm going to call a function called execute on this one deep snow parameters.
And then after we write execute,
I'm going to write return True.
So at least if he gets this fire and it returns true,
then we can take this as a success indicator that our statement was executed successfully.
Now,
on the negative side off the fence,
we want to actually handle any era that might come up.
And at this stage,
we really want to see any error that comes up.
So I'm going to replace this terrible th with PDO exception.
So remember that we're tearing oughta PDO operation here.
So the more,
more slightly exception to occur is with the PDO operation on,
I'm going to assign any error object that comes back to a variable called E on then well,
I'm going to do down here is echo to the screen.
So I'm not one to throw.
Those throwing would stop the execution altogether,
but I went to echo e r o get to message so we would have used E ira.
Get message before Andi.
I'm sure you're wondering what that iro meant.
So I hope that this exercise has brought more context to what this area is because he's
really just an object off a whole class on.
We just established that within a class,
those with access what is in the class is to use the arrow operator on.
Then we can actually interact with the other functions.
So est GMT,
here is an object off off db Prepare on then the SD empty object has a function bind Param
on the function execute.
So in the same way e dollar sign e represents the class or an object off the class video
exception on one of the functions of illiteracy is get message on then if on a released
carts on so not throwing but printed to the screen and we want to return falls.
So then then this is just an indicator to say it was not successful.
Now that we have me those changes to our crowd page or crowd file.
No,
we have a few changes that we want to make toe our connection file The first thing I want
to do is at what we call attributes toe the PDO object.
So I know it's connecting to the database,
and it's often and dandy.
But when we were doing this exercise,
we did not set attributes on those actually says I really want are,
like a remote.
So in other words,
PDO will always try to behave itself and be not unintrusive.
But then you can force it to behave a certain way by setting the attributes on a certain
way I wanted to be here is that if there's an exception,
I actually wanted toe stop all execution and show me that there's an exception.
So what I'm going to do here is reference a PDO object on.
I'm going to call the function inside this object called the set attributes on.
Then I'm just going to type these oh,
quickly off screen,
and then we just review them.
So these are the two attributes that I want to set on their both as it relates the era.
So I'm sitting this attributes on the era more is exception.
All right,
so essentially this attribute is you're saying that whenever there's an air I want to see
that there's an air.
Don't behave yourself.
Tell me that there's an error because the last thing you want is doing the bullying.
You think it's all well and fine,
and then you push the production and then nothing works.
So we want to see when there's an error.
So that's what this line is seeing.
That's change Number one.
The next change that we want to me is to actually reference our crowd file from right here
in cod in Khan.
Andi,
I'm going to explain why we're going to do it this way.
Remember that in our pages we are a frenzy are con not PHP.
Instead of having to reference conduct Ph.
B and then reference crowed.
Why I'm going to do is after setting up a successful a successful connection,
of course,
because the only way will get this fires.
If no exception is thrown,
I want to include or what I can require on I'm only going to require once.
Andi,
I want fraud dot PHP notice.
I don't have to put db slash Croat because this is the con file that is requiring the file
.
So if I look at the four the level They're both on the same level in the DB folder.
So I don't have to say db slash crowd.
So if you're a db slash card,
I didn't work then trying to remove the d v slash and it should work some referencing crude
that PHP on.
Then I'm going to define ah whole new object on.
I'm calling it crude on to define an object I'm going to see this is the name off the
object.
And I wanted to be equal to a new instance off my class.
And remember that the class the finally mr dot PHP the class they missed red dot PHP on the
object name is crawdad ph with screw.
So everything is cross everything looks uniforms.
So the new instance off crowed on,
then crowd requires on here.
Visual studio code is telling me that there is something that needs to go inside off the
parameters.
And that's because when we defined our constructor,
we defined it to accept some value.
All right,
so the value that is expecting institution in our context because we're the ones building
its we know that the values expecting is some connector.
Someone to pass the PDO object in tow,
my parameter.
So PDO so know what will happen is that for each time that we actually include or require
the con file,
the connection will be established on this will be done once.
And then it will just reference or profile so that any operation you want to carry out,
we need only reference the crowd object on whatever function.
So at this point,
we only have one function so anywhere we actually have fun referenced on any page.
We can actually just go ahead on reference Dollar sign crude on then using our operator,
we can look at all the other phone sons in there.
So armed with this new knowledge,
what we need to do is actually start setting up our success speech to be able to call our
crowd function.
So step number one is require and I'm just into require once on,
we're going to put on the db slash con dot PHP.
So when this speech Lords,
it's going toe require this file which is going to go ahead and initiate a connection on,
then it's no going to require or crowd file on defined a new class on,
then anything we need to do on the page,
we can receive object crowd on,
call the function.
So this way we're segmenting the court and we're keeping everything.
One place we're not putting too much PHP are too much,
too much database,
too many database operations,
mixing up with our HTML all the time.
And it's a nice,
cleaner way to have your court.
Now that I have completed that activity,
I'm going to start writing some more.
Ph.
B Chord on.
I'm just going to use the block that's there already.
So what I want to do is check if this if this page is being loaded on a post action on now
context,
realize that,
remember that we can always go to our application and just see locals that tenants slash
success that PHP all right on because it's opposed.
We don't have any off those parameters.
We don't have a question,
but and when I do that,
I'm going to be getting a bunch of errors about undefined variables on that is really
because it it is trying to print values from the post action.
If there was no post option meaning,
I'm just browsing to the page casually.
I didn't actually submit a for him to get there then these variables don't exist.
So before we attempt to put anything in the database,
we probably want us check.
If such a variable exists,
and if at least one out off all of the's exists that we can assume that the that arrest off
them exist.
Alright?
No.
When we were designing our form,
I had put a name on the submit button and this is why so a lot of the times you see that
people put a name on the submit button on what they'll do is check if the submit variable
exists,
because this would have come over in the post variable along with first name,
last name,
etcetera,
etcetera.
Even though it has no value,
it really it exists.
It's like an empty variable on the post action.
So what we want to do is start off by checking if that submit value exists.
So I can say if a NASA is set.
So that's a function to say doesn't exist on inside the set.
We passed in a variable,
so this is a nice way to check if a variable exists on a page,
someone to check if is set square bracket on submit.
So once again,
this is not checking for our values.
Just checking.
Does this variable exists?
Whether it's empty or not is irrelevant.
Does it exist on the page on?
But if it does,
then we want to carry out an option.
The red lanterns there because I missed this cynical and cerebral that all right,
so we say if it's set post summit,
so if the Post submit variable exists,
then we want to proceed with our operation.
So I'm going to define another variable,
and I'm going to call it.
Success equals on.
The reason I'm doing this is I'm about to call the crowd function insert.
And remember that insert is a value returning function causes either returning through our
falls.
So that means Well,
I probably can call this is success instead of success.
So this is asking a question.
Is it successful?
Drawer falls?
Is it a success on?
Then I'm going to assign to this variable whatever is returned from the phone shown.
No,
because we defined are we required baby slash corn dot PHP on Remember that it initialize
is some object for us called crude.
I have instant access to this object called fraud on then,
inside off the crude object I want my insert phone son on this insert function is defined
the except in this order these values first name the last name date of birth,
email,
address,
contact and specialty.
So I'm actually going to go ahead on and fill in these values using the post values.
So one pattern would be the Adidas past the post value directly into the function.
I'm not particularly fund off that I prefer to define my variables.
So I'm going toe have f name.
So within the context,
off success that Ph.
B F game didn't exist,
so I can reuse it here.
So F name is equal toe post first name.
And I'm going to do that for each off the values in the post.
On going to do that,
all screens,
you can go ahead and do that all rights of added all of the's values from the post.
Hurry on some comments so that we know exactly what's happening.
Adede.
Step on,
then what I'm going to do is call the insert function on pass in the required parameter.
So it's F name l named.
You'll be email in that exact order.
So I'm going to see the Assign F name as the first parameter.
The sign l name Andi.
I'm just going to do all of them.
Just make sure that they all line up.
All right?
So once that is done,
let me just recap.
What What happened?
So when this page is loaded,
it will check if the Post,
if one off the post variables exist on.
We're working with the assumption that if one exists and the others exist,
So if one exists,
then we want to extract other values from each one on.
This is done because maybe you get in the valuable.
You want to manipulate it before you put it into the database.
So that's why this is always a good idea before actually calling the insert function on.
Then at the end of us that we check if it was a success.
Well,
we passed those values into our insert function on Then the result of the insert function
will get stored in this variable is success.
So then this comes in handy because if we want to print a specific message if it was
successful versus appeals.
A failure than this gives us the ability so I can see if its success meaning if this was
true,
then do something else.
Do something else.
So right now what we're doing is printing a nice alert on ice success message when you have
been successfully registered up until no,
there wasn't any real operation to me to make it a failure.
So what I'm going to do is did this h one tug on actually echo this each one tug if it was
a success.
So if is success,
then we will see that success message being printed to the screen else.
We're going to echo the opposite someone to reuse that cold.
But I'm going to change this text danger which will give us read text on then that we will
see there was an arrow in processing.
There was on arrow.
All right,
so once again,
we're checking to see if we got true.
Are falls returned from this insert function.
And if it is true,
then we want to give them a success message.
And if it was falls,
then we want to show them that.
Hey,
there was an arrow processing your registration.
No,
we have one additional and very major change to make.
And that is as it released our specialty.
No,
up until this point,
specialty has been coming across us.
Text.
We have a select control here,
A drop down list giving us each specialty on when we submitted it on the success speech.
When we printed the value,
we got a text.
You got somebody off text now?
The problem with that is we designed our database to accept a specialty I d.
So we have a specialty stable,
which is empty right now,
so we can always feel this with data on,
but the attendee table is taking the i d relative.
So the specialties in this table.
So first they need to insert,
at least Well,
I'm going to insert one for this video,
so I'm going to insert the database,
add mean specialty.
So I go.
So I click on my table specialties.
And then I clicked on insert on.
Then I'm going toe,
not give it on.
I devalue because I can't.
But I'm going to give you the name,
database,
admin and then go.
This will show me that it's about to execute an insert command on the bottom of page.
I can click go again on then that inserted.
So when I look in that database by just clicking on the table,
it will always show me what's there on.
I see that they did a double entry.
Okay,
I can remove one.
That's fine.
But no,
I see that I have at least one record here on day.
I have database admin on the I d hear history,
which means because we set off that constant on the table,
I can put in an I d value here that doesn't exist in the table.
So whatever I'm about to insert into my database needs too much with the Wisconsin train.
So I went to force this.
So we're going to me this more than I am because you go along.
But for no,
I'm just going to force the value associated with this option to be three.
So we'll just make sure that Mary Poppins,
for example,
see selects three on.
She's a database admin on.
When we submit what the expectation is that three will be printed here on the two or three
will be passed over in the post on.
Then three will be the value that is received here in specialty Onda ultimately put into
the database.
All right,
so I'm going to try and submit the form and let's see if we get any URLs and try and
whether through them,
so I submit.
I'm seeing that I'm getting a few Arabs here on the 1st 1 is saying that there's an
undefined index date off birth and they give me the line number in the file.
And when I look back,
they are right because it's not get off birth.
It's actually deal be.
So that's my mistake.
So just meet that correction.
The next arrow is seeing that I have on on defined method call to get Massad.
So that's a spelling error on my part.
So on crowed that PHP on line 30 weekend go ahead on me,
that correction So that's get message on.
Then we can try and resubmit Andi,
I expect to see ares again because all right,
there we go.
There was an heroin processing.
So what this did was it attempted the operation I specified and it returned falls on then
because he returned falls.
We're printing all that bread text seen.
There was an arrow processing.
There was an error in processing.
But then we're also echoing the message because we did see gets message to be should be
echoed on.
What we're echoing is saying that the insert value this does not much something,
something something.
And that's because the data,
the word database Adminis still coming across instead off the i.
D.
All right,
so let's try that again,
and the era was because I did not refresh my page.
I just resubmit to the form.
So let's try and fill up the form once again on then we can proceed to submit,
All right,
so I'm still getting the error.
And if we read the RNC and that the value list does not much the column list.
So that that is because,
well,
it seemed that there's some cola mismatching with the values that we provided.
So what I'm going to do is just modify my insert into and be very,
very explicit on.
I'm going to see a long first name.
Last name dates off birth.
So these are the column names as they appear in the database design.
So just you can always just remind yourself as to what the columns are by clicking on the
table itself and then going to structure.
And you see,
first name,
last name,
date of birth,
email,
address,
contact numbers.
We have to be very,
very,
very sure that you're spilling them.
Right,
So that's date of birth.
Email address.
Contact number on specialty.
Underscore I d.
So we can try this one more time,
so I'm going to go back to my form.
I went to refurbish Once again,
Philip totes on Submit and I have success.
All right,
on then you notice that there's a three coming back here in this in this printout,
as opposed to the word database,
I mean,
so that that's fine as we go along with refine it.
But the important thing is that after all of these changes and activities,
we have finally registered somebody successfully not validate that the person has been
registered successfully.
We can always go back to PHP my admin click on our attendee table on.
We will see over record their Mary Poppins on you see that the date off birth came across
zeros on.
That's because of a former thing issue.
But we will start that.
Oates.
But right?
No,
we have Victor because we have successfully submitted or 1st 2 records in the database corn
egrets.